## UX Research Report

This project involves conducting UX research to assess the impact of design modifications on an Italian restaurant's website called Rustic Italian Trattoria. 
The primary objectives are to enhance user engagement, improve the call-to-action button's effectiveness, and optimize the visual elements for increased user interaction and interest.

The research methods included: A/B testing, Think-Out-Loud and 5-second protocol. Two different participants engaged in all the research methods and provided their input. 
The participants were selected for having close relationships with the creators of the website. The tools used to capture the data were recordings of the interactions that the users had with the site. 
The first test took place on 12/06/23 at 3:26pm, the second test took place on 12/07/23 at 1:46pm, the third test took place on 12/08/23 at 4:45pm and the fourth and final test took place on 12/09/23 at 1:12pm.

One participant was a female university student aged 22, and the second participant was an older male aged 55 that works as an electrician. 

During the A/B testing, we compared two versions of a design to see which one performed better. 
In this case, we tested the addition of a "Subscribe Now" button with the younger user to see if it would be the first button they pressed on the site. 
The addition of a "Subscribe Now" button successfully redirected the younger user’s attention from the “Menu” button and it was now the first option that user would click on.
Regarding the older user, we wanted to know if changing the hero image to one that included a person portraying a positive emotion and a welcoming entrance next to it led to increased engagement.
At the end, changing the hero image did lead to an increased engagement, evident in longer user viewing time with the older user.

During the Think-Out-Loud testing, we invited participants to express their inner thoughts out loud while using the site. 
In this case, we tested the ability for the user to find social links. 
The younger adult user used a normal rate of speech, volume, and pitch to scroll all the way down the bottom of the page and showed no confusion over the task at hand. 
User mentioned “ok, the links should be at the bottom of the page” “I don’t see them at the lower center so they must be on the side, I will go to the right side since it is my dominant hand side, great, I found them!”. 
We also tested the older user’s ability to find how to make a reservation. 
The older adult user verbalized their thoughts in high volume, high pitch, and slow speech rate to show that they were confused as to how to make a reservation on the site.
User mentioned “I scrolled all the way down the page, but it’s unclear as to how I could make a reservation, mmm…. 
I am confused as to why the reservation button is only in the Menu option, it would be better if it was located on the main page too”.

During the 5 second protocol testing, we tested the younger user’s first impression of the landing page in the first five seconds. 
This first impression should confirm the “Caregiver” archetype for the page, with the use of warm and inviting tones such as earthy browns, soft yellows, warm oranges, and deep reds. 
These colors should evoke a sense of comfort, hospitality, and a welcoming atmosphere. 
The archetype is also present in the fonts which are Roboto, Great Vibes and Lato.
The younger user’s impression was the following “The landing page gave me a warm and cozy feeling. 
It felt like it was an Italian restaurant, but I didn’t know about the location, if I had to guess, I would say it is in Italy. The food looked gourmet; it gave me the idea that it would be an expensive place to dine at. 
The photo of the girl enjoying the meal made me think that I would enjoy a meal there too.” The older user mentioned “I saw the picture of a cook that looked like the owner, if he was going to make my food, it gave me confidence that it would be good!” 

The UX changes recommended are to Implement "Subscribe Now" button as a prominent call-to-action. Change the hero image to increase user engagement. Implemented a “Make a Reservation” button on the landing page and other parts of the site. 

The A/B testing validated the effectiveness of the "Subscribe Now" button and the new hero image in redirecting user attention and increasing engagement, as evidenced by clicks and longer viewing times.

Think-Out-Loud sessions revealed contrasting user experiences in finding social links, indicating successful navigation for the younger user and confusion over the reservation process for the older user.

The 5-second protocol highlighted positive initial impressions for both users, emphasizing a warm ambiance for the younger user and a confidence-inducing perception for the older user and confirming that the Caregiver archetype implementation was working for the site. 
